W-17316096 monitoring/message logging (#783)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.9/modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/flex-message-log.adoc

Applying a Message Logging policy to your API instance in API Manager allows you to view basic logs, such as inbound and outbound calls and headers, for APIs managed by Flex Gateway within API Manager. Logging for an API instance only happens if you configure and apply a Message Logging policy. 

To view metrics in API Manager, such as total requests, total policy violations, total errors, and average response time, see xref:flex-view-api-metrics.adoc[].

== Message Logging Limits and Features

include::reuse::partial$billing/pricing.adoc[tag=apimLogging] 

> For each API instance configured through a policy, basic logs report the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basic logs report this information for each API instance configured through a policy:
```

* Inbound and outbound API calls, as well as the packet contents
* Headers and any other information in the request

To view message logs in API Manager, you need one of the following permissions:

* API Manager Environment Administrator
* API Manager Deploy API Proxies
* General Organization Administration

Refer to xref:access-management::permissions-by-product.adoc[].

== Configure Message Logging in Connected Mode

. From API Administration in API Manager, select the name of the API Instance.
. Click *Policies*.
. Click *+ Add policy*.

> . Under the *Troubleshooting* category, click *Message Logging*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Message Logging* in the *Troubleshooting* category.
```

. Click *Next*.
. Click *+ Add*.

> . Enter a *Configuration Name*, for example, Info messages before calling API.

Reviewer: Should the example be styled? Maybe quotation marks around it?

Author: Now styled, thank you!

. Enter a DataWeave expression that selects what information you want to see.
+
For example, `#[attributes.headers['id']]` extracts the ids from the headers of
the messages. For more information, see xref:policies-flex-dataweave-support.adoc[].

. If you want to filter log messages, enter a DataWeave expression.
+

> For example, `#[attributes.headers['id']==1]` displays log messages that have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `#[attributes.headers['id']==1]` shows log messages that have
```
